---
title: Improvements to jonri.codes
date: 2021-07-26
published: true
cover: ./website-sketch.jpg
photographer: Photo by Marco Nenzi on Unsplash
---

Now that I have started working on my blog and portfolio again there are quite a
few improvements I want to make. I started with updating my package dependencies
to the latest version. I was mainly motivated to do so because Gatsby improved
the way you can import images to your site and how those images render in the
browser. This led me to adjust the size of the feature image used in my blog
template. In the previous version of my site the feature image was very tall and
I didn’t bother with optimization or resizing. Now it’s not as tall and I’m able
to take advantage of the responsive image technique that Gatsby provides with
its image plugin.

Next I turned my attention to the homepage and wanted to add a feature section
to the hero. My focus was to highlight the things I like to work on, like design
and coding. In the near future I plan to expand my homepage with a featured
portfolio piece and more links to blog articles. I know if I want to make that
transition to UI designer/frontend engineer it will be important for me to
showcase my work on design systems and other UI related work. I can’t wait to
complete that enhancement. I know it will differentiate me from other job
candidates. I also, included React Helmet so I can include a favicon for my site
and later on improve the SEO by adding title and description tags.

One thing that is important to me when building an app or site on the frontend
is the developer experience. How easy is it to maintain a consistent design
while developing components and pages? The next goal for my site is to improve
the developer experience by using design tokens for color, typography, spacing,
and fonts. Currently, I’m designing in the browser, meaning I’m making it up as
a go along, which isn’t necessarily a bad thing for quickly prototyping styles
and components, but as I continue to build out my site I know this will not
scale. Some of the inefficiencies I have are remembering the hex code for my
primary color and grayscale colors, staying on track for using a 4 point scale
for spacing, and mixing pixels and rems. By defining these values as design
tokens, I can basically set it and forget and use the tokens throughout my
components in an efficient and consistent manner. I’ve started investigating the
best way to do this in Gatsby and the approach I decided to take is Theme UI in
combination with styled-components.

Theme UI describes itself as “a library for creating themeable user interfaces
based on constraint-based design principles. Build custom component libraries,
design systems, web applications, Gatsby themes, and more with a flexible API
for best-in-class developer ergonomics.”

Definitely sounds like it meets the requirements for improving the developer
experience of my site.

The motivation behind styled-components is “styled-components is the result of
wondering how we could enhance CSS for styling React component systems. By
focusing on a single use case we managed to optimize the experience for
developers as well as the output for end users.”

Again, definitely meets my requirements for improving the developer experience.

As I continue to make updates to my site, I will use Theme UI to integrate
design tokens and styled-components to create reusable components that are
themed with the design tokens. My site is a playground for my coding and design
journey, and it will not always be perfect, but my goal is to have a place where
I can showcase the things I’m learning and the side projects I’m using to keep
my skills up-to-date.
